---
title: Statement on the Inexcusable Arrest of the Seven Members in Students for a Democratic Society at LSU
date: 2025-10-06
description: Baton Rouge DSA joins its youth wing, the Young Democratic Socialists of America at LSU, to stand in solidarity with Students for a Democratic Society's No MAGA President campaign.
imageUrl: 
imageDescription: 
author: Baton Rouge DSA
source: https://docs.google.com/document/d/17E9z3tW1hkztQCCMC86Ak7b7aoH9RyUWNRVH8xb2upc/edit?tab=t.0
---

On October 1st, 2025, seven student protestors and members of [Students for a Democratic Society](https://www.instagram.com/lsu.sds/) were arrested at an LSU Presidential Search Committee meeting. After making several public statements and going overtime by a mere 10 seconds, Gabriela Juárez, Margo Wilson, Enola Guyer, Ziad Eissa, Carson Wall, Ryan Spalt, and Scott Sonnier were all detained and charged by LSUPD. The [Young Democratic Socialists of America at LSU](https://www.instagram.com/ydsa.lsu) strongly condemn these arrests and firmly believe that the misdemeanor charges these students were arrested for are unwarranted and inexcusable by a supposed liberal institution. We demand that no charges be filed against these students by the District Attorney and that the LSU administration take no disciplinary action against them.

As the sliver of democracy in our country is under attack, this suppression of speech is unfortunately becoming too common. LSUPD’s excessive force in removing the student protesters from the meeting is both an overreaction to a procedural error, and has the effect of chilling free speech. The LSU administration proceeded to make false statements, such as claiming that Gabriela Juarez was given a lawful order before being violently dragged out of the building. LSUPD's excessive force left bruises on Gabriela and red marks on Carson that were visible the morning after the arrests took place. Gabriela was strip-searched and experienced transphobic treatment throughout the duration of her 13-hour detainment at both the LSUPD holding cell and East Baton Rouge Parish Prison. She was released at around 2 AM the following morning. These actions give lie to the academic liberal beliefs that universities in the United States claim to uphold. They also violate the universal human rights to freedom of speech and expression that all people must continually struggle to retain.  

Baton Rouge Democratic Socialists of America joins its youth wing, the Young Democratic Socialists of America at LSU, to stand in solidarity with Students for a Democratic Society's No MAGA President campaign. The Young Democratic Socialists of America at LSU joins SDS in demanding the following from the [Presidential Search Committee](https://www.lsu.edu/bos/president-search/index.php) and [Board of Supervisors at LSU](https://www.lsu.edu/bos/index.php): that at least five student positions filled by students from the Baton Rouge campus are added to the search committee, three town halls are held to allow for public input and transparency in candidate selection, and that the entire student body can vote on their top three candidates through ranked choice voting before the Board of Supervisors votes on these three candidates.

In this dark time where academics are being persecuted, students are arrested for their speech, and facts are being called misinformation or dangerous rhetoric, it is important to have a president who supports academic freedom and free speech. It is essential to have a president who stands by their institution when attacks come from within or beyond. It is essential to have a president who supports the students and professors, rather than being a puppet for this corrupt government. Higher education is a place for students to learn and find ways to create a better future, not a place to be molded into accepting the status quo or a place to be persecuted when one uses critical thinking and questions the existing order.

We stand firmly in solidarity with Students for a Democratic Society at LSU. We firmly condemn the actions of the authorities and the LSU Presidential Search Committee in this situation. We demand that no criminal charges or disciplinary action be pursued against these seven protestors. We demand that the Board of Supervisors and Presidential Search Committee immediately meet the demands of Students for a Democratic Society at LSU. Shame on LSU for folding to the government and aiding in destroying this country and all we claim to love and hold dear.

A Better World is Possible,
The Baton Rouge Democratic Socialists of America
