---  
title: Debrief on No Kings 3  
date: 2026-03-28  
description: Our goal as organizers and seekers of political change will be the continuation of coalition growth and subsequent mobilization of power.  
imageUrl: banner-mobilize.png  
imageDescription: a graphic of people marching with signs  
author: Justin L.  
---

No Kings 3 events took place nationwide on March 28, 2026. The nationwide day of protest was held to encourage citizens to voice their displeasure toward the individual currently occupying the presidency. Additionally, other individuals and projects within the federal government continue to sow chaos and uncertainty both nationally and internationally. For those unfamiliar, the No Kings movement seeks a path of non-violent societal change. And I, like most other organizers and attendees of the event, hope that non-violent change remains possible.  Particularly since America has a long and bloody history of conflict between the citizens and government, primarily toward marginalized communities.

The city of Baton Rouge hosted an event, which was run in collaboration with national and local organizations and a coalition of citizens. Baton Rouge and the majority of Louisiana have been Republican strongholds for decades, and have not been particularly welcoming toward the marginalized communities that act as its lifeblood. Event attendance for No Kings 3 BR was close to 1500. Even more exciting was the fact that this grassroots event was mostly marketed by word of mouth and social media. No big money backers, no corporate donors. Only real people living real lives who share the same community. And most certainly not “paid protestors” as some would claim. That is, in my view, one of the greatest achievements of the event. It is also the reason that this coalition is set to succeed. 

	While the No Kings movement may be pointed at certain individuals within our federal government, I believe the true strength of the No Kings movement lies in the other aspects. The current leaders of our country have created a sense of instability to the lives of the average citizen. Even those individuals who have historically been uninvolved are beginning to mobilize. And as a result, the citizenry is quickly realizing how much power it has to enact change, despite decades of propaganda and active impediment by Big Tech and other large corporations who have little to no interest in giving up their wealth and power.  I believe this growth trend will continue as long as the administration continues to violate federal law, civil rights, and common decency. 

	Our goal as organizers and seekers of political change will be the continuation of coalition growth and subsequent mobilization of power. The groups who built the No Kings 3 BR coalition have their own individual goals, of course. But each of these groups have goals that overlap well within the coalition. For example, Indivisible BR’s stated goal is the empowerment of individuals to participate in local democracy and activism. Meanwhile, the Democratic Socialists of America seek societal level change to create a more equitable society, which necessitates restructuring of the economy, capital, and other currently-entrenched power structures. It stands to reason that without some level of accomplishment of Indivisible in their organizational goals, that the larger macro-level goal of DSA will be difficult to accomplish. For all of these reasons and more, I believe that the No Kings events serve as a vehicle to inspire more people to stand and be heard. Creating the shared sense of community and camaraderie will be the beacon of hope that this world can change for the better. 

Justin L.

Concerned Citizen and Democracy Enthusiast

Baton Rouge DSA is continuing to pursue the campaigns we shared at the No Kings event:

- We continue to engage community members in West Baton Rouge in order to block the development of ICE facilities in Port Allen. [Sign the petition here](https://airtable.com/appwPyKJ2bGtH1NgL/pagalSL8CBD3jSWmL/form).


- We are excited to launch our campaign for reliable public transit by riding the buses on Earth Day April 22. [Join the campaign chat here](https://bit.ly/catsriders).


- In collaboration with Jewish Voice for Peace NOLA, we demand that Treasurer Fleming divest education funds from Israeli bonds. [Send him an email here](https://actionnetwork.org/letters/books-not-bombs/).


- We demand an end to the siege on Cuba and encourage community members to donate to [DSA's Venceremos fund](https://act.dsausa.org/donate/venceremos_fund/).
